update README basic structure (#231)
open-component-model/ocm-k8s-toolkit: README.md

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/open-component-model/ocm-k8s-toolkit)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/open-component-model/ocm-k8s-toolkit)

> [!CAUTION]
> This project is in early development and not yet ready for production use.

OCM K8s Toolkit contains the tooling for

> - providing the location of OCM resources from an OCM component version, so it can be consumed by a deployer. It is used
>     to deploy OCM resources like a HelmChart or Kustomization into a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- providing the objects for OCM resources from a component version, so it can be consumed by a deployer. It is used
    to deploy OCM resources like a helm charts or other manifests, into a Kubernetes cluster.
```

> - providing a controller to transfer OCM component versions.

Reviewer: Technically, we are also deploying them, right?

Author: Our controllers do not deploy something. They are pretty dumb to be honest :D they just parse the location of an OCM resource in the resource status (+ some verifications on the way)

Author: I changed this point as well as I found it too complicated

### What should I know before I start?

- You should be familiar with the [Open Component Model](https://ocm.software/)
- You should be familiar with the [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) ecosystem
- You should be familiar with [kro](https://kro.run)
- You should know about deployers that deploy HelmCharts or Kustomizations into Kubernetes clusters, e.g.
    [FluxCD](https://fluxcd.io/).

## Concept

> [!NOTE]
> The following section provides a high-level overview of the OCM K8s Toolkit and its components regarding the
> deployment of an OCM resource in a very basic scenario. To learn more about the transfer of OCM component versions,
> please take a look at its [architecture document](docs/architecture/replication.md).

> An OCM component version can contain an OCM resource, like a HelmChart or Kustomization, that shall be deployed into a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An OCM component version can contain an OCM resource, like a HelmChart or Kustomization, that can be deployed into a
```

Kubernetes Cluster.
Accordingly, a deployer, for instance FluxCD, needs to know where to find the OCM resource.
To transfer the information about the location of the OCM resource, another tool is required that can provide this

> information. This should be done by referring to the OCM resource status as this information can be dynamic.

Reviewer: This is a bit weird here, because you are using OCM resource interchangeably with controller resources vs just plain OCM resources which could be of any type. You need a clearer distinction.

Reviewer: But then, OCM resources can be anything any kind of Manifest, not just kustomization or something. Flux or another deployer can apply those no problem. So that's why it's weird.

Author: I updated the concept in the meantime. Not sure if that issue is still present

At this point, kro comes into play. Its `ResourceGraphDefinition` orchestrates Kubernetes resources and provides a way
to reference each resource using CEL-expressions.

Additionally, as OCM promises a secure delivery, we have to make sure that the OCM resource is still the same resource

> it was, when the OCM component version was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as it was, when the OCM component version was created.
```

To do so, OCM K8s Toolkit provides several custom Kubernetes resources and controllers to verify the OCM resources
as well as to publish the location of the OCM resources in its status.

```mermaid

> flowchart BT

Reviewer: Why are the arrows pointing upwards? 🤔 I thought they should be pointing down?

Author: Because they are referring to the object they are pointing to. Do you think this is misleading?

Reviewer: Humm hummm. I don't know. :D I think it makes more sense to point down since that thing _contains_ the other thing.

Author: Sure, pointing the arrows down would display how the information are transferred from object to object. That makes sense

Author: I changed the direction. PTAL and let me know what you think :)

        k8sComponent --> k8sRepo
        k8sResource --> k8sComponent
        source --> k8sResource
        deployment --> source
    end

    linkStyle default fill:none,stroke:black;

    class reconciledBy,ocmK8sToolkit,fluxCD,kro reconciledBy;
    class object,rgd,k8sRepo,k8sComponent,k8sResource,source,deployment k8sObject;
    class ocmRepo,ocmCV,ocmResource ocm;
    class k8sCluster cluster;
    class legend legendStyle;
```

As described in the above diagram, the base is an OCM resource containing a HelmChart. This OCM resource is part of an
OCM component version, which is located in an OCM repository.

The `ResourceGraphDefintion` contains all the Kubernetes custom resources (CR) to deploy the Helm Chart into the
Kubernetes cluster:
- `OCMRepository`: Points to the OCM repository and checks if it is reachable by pinging it.
- `Component`: Refers to the `OCMRepository` and downloads and verifies the OCM component version descriptor.
- `Resource`: Points to the `Component`, downloads the OCM component version descriptor from which it gets the location
of the OCM resource. It then downloads the resource to verify it (optional) and publishes the location of the resource

> in its status (Of course, only if the resource has remote access, e.g., an OCI or a GitHub repository).

Reviewer: Hm. During a transfer the AccessSpec will be overwritten with a global or local access. What's the benefit of displaying this information?

Author: This is not related to the transfer/replication.

But we need to publish the location of the resource so we can consume it with the deployer (e.g. FluxCD) using a reference in a RGD

Reviewer: Gotcha.

As a result, FluxCDs can now consume the information of the `Resource` and deploy the Helm Chart:

> - `OCIRepository`: Watches and downloads the resource from the specified location that points to the `Resource` status.

Reviewer: Curious. How does that work? I don't see any OCI repository urls that would end up in the Status of a Resource. 🤔 Where does that come from? How does that look like?

Reviewer: As a TODO I would definitely include some examples later on. :)

Author: I tried to make the README concept rather short to not overwhelm anybody. I hoped that the current state is enough to get a rough idea.

I will create a more detailed version with https://github.com/open-component-model/ocm-project/issues/486

Please let me know if the current concept description is enough and understandable for an initial overview

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/open-component-model/ocm-k8s-toolkit)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/open-component-model/ocm-k8s-toolkit)

> [!CAUTION]
> This project is in early development and not yet ready for production use.

> OCM K8s Toolkit contains the tooling for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OCM K8s Toolkit
```

> - supporting the deployment of an OCM resource, like a helm chart or other manifests, into a Kubernetes cluster with the

Reviewer 2: [](url)
```suggestion
- supports the deployment of an OCM component and its resources, like a helm charts or other manifests, into a Kubernetes cluster with the
```

help of kro and a deployer, e.g. FluxCD.

> - providing a controller to transfer OCM component versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- provides a controller to transfer OCM components.
```

### What should I know before I start?

You should be familiar with the following concepts:
- [Open Component Model](https://ocm.software/)
- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) ecosystem
- [kro](https://kro.run)
- Kubernetes resource deployer such as [FluxCD](https://fluxcd.io/).

## Concept

> [!NOTE]
> The following section provides a high-level overview of the OCM K8s Toolkit and its components regarding the
> deployment of an OCM resource in a very basic scenario. To learn more about the *transfer* of OCM component versions,
> please take a look at its [architecture document](docs/architecture/replication.md).

> The main mission of OCM K8s Toolkit is simple: Deploy an OCM resource from an OCM component version into a Kubernetes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The primary purpose of OCM K8s Toolkit is simple: Deploy an OCM resource from an OCM component version into a Kubernetes
```

cluster.

The implementation, however, is a bit more complex as deployments must be secure and configurable. Additionally, an

> OCM Resource can, in theory, contain any form of deployable resource, for instance a helm chart, a Kustomization, or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OCM Resource can, in theory, contain any form of deployable resource, for instance a Helm chart, a Kustomization, or
```

> plain manifests (and whatever the future will bring). Each of these resources has its own way of being deployed or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
plain Kubernetes manifests. Each of these resources has its own way of being deployed or
```

configured. So, instead of creating a generic deployer that offers all these functionalities, we decided to use existing
tools that are already available in the Kubernetes ecosystem.

> The following diagram describes a basic scenario in which an OCM resource containing a helm chart is deployed into a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following diagram describes a basic scenario in which an OCM resource containing a Helm chart is deployed into a
```

Kubernetes cluster using the OCM K8s Toolkit as well as kro and FluxCD.
kro is used to orchestrate the deployment and to transport information about the location of the OCM resource to FluxCD.

> FluxCD consumes the information about the location of the OCM resource, downloads the chart, configures it if necessary,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FluxCD takes the location of the OCM resource, downloads the chart, configures it if necessary,
```

           subgraph ocmCV[OCM Component Version]
               subgraph ocmResource[OCM Resource: HelmChart]
               end
           end
        end

        subgraph k8sCluster[Kubernetes Cluster]
            subgraph kro[kro]
                subgraph rgd[ResourceGraphDefinition]
                    subgraph ocmK8sToolkit[OCM K8s Toolkit]
                        k8sRepo[OCMRepository]
                        k8sComponent[Component]
                        k8sResource[Resource]
                    end
                    subgraph fluxCD[FluxCD]
                        source[OCI Repository]
                        deployment[HelmRelease]
                    end
                end
            end
        end

        ocmRepo --> k8sRepo
        k8sRepo --> k8sComponent
        k8sComponent --> k8sResource
        k8sResource --> source
        source --> deployment
    end

    linkStyle default fill:none,stroke:black;

    class reconciledBy,ocmK8sToolkit,fluxCD,kro reconciledBy;
    class object,rgd,k8sRepo,k8sComponent,k8sResource,source,deployment k8sObject;
    class ocmRepo,ocmCV,ocmResource ocm;
    class k8sCluster cluster;
    class legend legendStyle;
```

> The above diagram shows an OCM resource containing a HelmChart. This OCM resource is part of an OCM component version,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above diagram shows an OCM resource of type `helmChart`. This resource is part of an OCM component version,
```

which is located in an OCM repository.

In the `Kubernetes Cluster` we can see several Kubernetes (custom) resources. The `ResourceGraphDefintion` contains all

> the resources to deploy the Helm Chart into the Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the resources to deploy the Helm chart into the Kubernetes cluster:
```

- `OCMRepository`: Points to the OCM repository and checks if it is reachable by pinging it.
- `Component`: Refers to the `OCMRepository` and downloads and verifies the OCM component version descriptor.
- `Resource`: Points to the `Component`, downloads the OCM component version descriptor from which it gets the location

> of the OCM resource. It then downloads the resource to verify it (optional) and publishes the location of the resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the OCM resource. It then downloads the resource to verify its signature (optional) and publishes the location of the resource
```

in its status (Of course, only if the resource has remote access, e.g., an OCI or a GitHub repository).

> As a result, FluxCDs can now consume the information of the `Resource` and deploy the Helm Chart:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, FluxCDs can now consume the information of the `Resource` and deploy the Helm chart:
```

- `OCIRepository`: Watches and downloads the resource from the location provided by the `Resource` status.

> - `HelmRelease`: Refers to the `OCIRepository`, lets you configure the helm chart, and deploys the Helm Chart into the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `HelmRelease`: Refers to the `OCIRepository`, lets you configure the Helm chart, and deploys it into the
```

Kubernetes cluster.

A more detailed architecture description of the OCM K8s Toolkit can be found [here](docs/architecture/architecture.md).

## Installation

Currently, the OCM K8s Toolkit is available as [image][controller-image] and

> [Kustomization](config/default/kustomization.yaml). A Helm Chart is planned for the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Kustomization](config/default/kustomization.yaml). A Helm chart is planned for the future.
```

To install the OCM K8s Toolkit into your running Kubernetes cluster, you can use the following commands:

```console
# In the ocm-k8s-toolkit/ repository
make deploy
```

or

```console
kubectl apply -k https://github.com/open-component-model/ocm-k8s-toolkit/config/default?ref=main
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> OCM K8s Toolkit requires kro and a deployer, e.g. FluxCD, to deploy an OCM resource into a Kubernetes cluster.
> The OCM K8s Toolkit deployment, however, does not contain kro or any deployer. Please refer to the respective
> installation guides for these tools:
> - [kro](https://kro.run/docs/getting-started/Installation/)
> - [FluxCD](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/)

## Getting Started

> - [Setup your (test) environment with KinD, kro, and FluxCD](docs/getting-started/setup.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Setup your (test) environment with kind, kro, and FluxCD](docs/getting-started/setup.md)
```

> - [Deploying a Helm Chart using a `ResourceGraphDefinition` with FluxCD](docs/getting-started/deploy-helm-chart.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Deploying a Helm chart using a `ResourceGraphDefinition` with FluxCD](docs/getting-started/deploy-helm-chart.md)
```

> - [Deploying a Helm Chart using a `ResourceGraphDefinition` inside the OCM component version (bootstrap) with FluxCD](docs/getting-started/deploy-helm-chart-bootstrap.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Deploying a Helm chart using a `ResourceGraphDefinition` inside the OCM component version (bootstrap) with FluxCD](docs/getting-started/deploy-helm-chart-bootstrap.md)
```

- [Configuring secrets for OCM K8s Toolkit resources to access private OCM repositories](docs/getting-started/secrets.md)
- [Transfer OCM component versions](docs/getting-started/transfer.md)

## Contributing

> Code contributions, feature requests, bug reports, and help requests are very welcome. Please refer to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code contributions, feature requests, bug reports, and help requests are very welcome. Please refer to our
```

> [Contributing Guide in the Community repository](https://github.com/open-component-model/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Contributing Guide](https://github.com/open-component-model/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
```
